oh hi hey
uh so first i wanna thank you for doing
this
uh you and your whole team
you're very well uh and now we're just
gonna
thank you and then i'll just uh set the
scene uh i guess
uh you can call me puns by the way puns
uh puns yeah pawns blazing so pawn short
oh
okay pants got it so um
that's great once blazing is a pun in
and of itself
thank you how does one deal with like
short fuse
um and not not anger issues just initial
like um outraged visceral responses
uh or like feelings um
for example uh you know whenever someone
says or does something and
even if i don't say anything i would
have this initial
like you know my my heart start beating
faster and
you know i get uh sweaty palms and like
i feel like i'm holding my breath
because it's something that my sister is
the same way and we've talked about it
and
like 99 we got it from our parents but
it's just something i've noticed and i
don't know exactly how to
like deal with it because it becomes
more apparent for me because usually
i go from like super passive um
or like calm to like you know
very active i guess or engaged with
whatever we're doing
and often what like triggers it it's not
even important topics
uh it happens even when i'm like gaming
for example you know like a friend
messes up like a mechanic or something i
you know i get the feeling of like oh my
god what are you doing
and then it also you know manifests
whenever i'm like
talking or like arguing or debating on
stuff
oh okay so so uh are you are you okay
hold on let me can i think for a second
puns
of course yeah sorry i just threw a lot
on
you at once no it's fine it's it's
actually very helpful
i'm just processing um so
what i'm hearing is that it's not like
something personal it's just like your
mind gets caught up with
things like arguments or gaming
yeah or something that like an event
that happens can you give me an example
um okay so maybe someone like
breaks something like in the house or
um you know does something like you know
considered stupid
and then or like messes up something
obvious
and my initial response is like oh my
god how could you do that
even if i don't say anything that's like
my
like instinct reaction to it puns would
you say that you're intolerant of the
stupidity of others
um i wouldn't say so i'm quite
i've accepted that most people do stupid
stuff
myself included sometimes then why do
you get upset when they do stupid stuff
i don't know um i feel like part of the
reason is
uh you know when i was growing up
a lot of the times like my dad for
example he's very
he means like we mean the world to him
he does
everything for us but like often like
even if we do something like somewhat
right you'll be like okay you should
have also done this though
and stuff like that you know like he
wants us to be like the best we can
and i know it comes from a face
do you expect other people to be the
best too
uh no but i i have thought about this
and i know i put myself to like
impossible standard
and i feel like sometimes that initial
reaction is
me putting the standards for me on other
people
if that makes sense is that what happens
uh i'm not 100 sure but it makes sense
when i think about it
okay so puns we've got two options here
one is it sounds like you're very bitter
so i i would i would love to just see
your face because i'm curious whether
you know you have color in your face
whether you have like medium features
uh we can do that if you want yeah let's
can you just turn on video real quick i
don't have to stream it
i'm just curious all right you look like
cause my room is very messy
that's okay um
so so there there are two things here
one is like we normally take like the
psychological angle right of like figure
out you know what like oh like you're
putting these expectations that your dad
put on you on other people like oh my
god
so we take that angle which it sounds
like you're pretty familiar with so i
would encourage you to explore that
the second thing that you could do is
balance your ayurvedic dosha
so if we think about res like you're
you're asking me
not how to deal with the impulsive anger
but how to prevent the impulsive anger
right how to stop the short fuse in the
first place
and so that's where i encourage you to
think a little bit about expectation
and what you expect from other people
because i would suspect that
it is other people's inability to live
up to your expectations that is the
short
that leads to the shortness of views
so you're just asking a lot of them
right like especially if you're playing
a game
that's messing up i'm sorry yeah yeah
not the end of the world if you can't
get it to work but uh yeah i'm sorry i
don't want to waste your time
it's it's okay i think i uh you're
you're coughing better i think so like i
i noticed that you had like some redness
like
especially on your cheeks and stuff it
doesn't look quite like acne
do you have acne uh no but my skin gets
very dry
dry and does it get red uh yes
okay and and so we can't i didn't get
very good look because it was blurry but
so the other thing that you could do is
reduce your bit though do you know what
that is
uh can you remind me yeah so in ayurveda
so in western medicine we think like
everyone's mind is the same
right like we say that we don't sort of
say that they're different kinds of
minds
so we know that like in physical
attributes like some people have red
hair some people have black hair some
people
have brown hair some people have blonde
hair and in the same way there are
different
versions of like mental faculties
so it's not just like iq but then like
we sort of know that some people are
artistic some people are creative
whatever
some people are like more mathematical
but actually ayurveda says that even
like our emotional responses to stress
come in three buckets so some people get
anxious
some people get depressed and some
people get angry
so anytime we put pressure on your mind
you may be more likely to respond with a
short fuse
and so if you want to reduce that
intrinsic
like approach to anger what you need to
do is reduce your pitta
so bitte is reduced so this is it's kind
of weird but ayurveda sort of says that
they're like these
three elemental qualities that sort of
are
correlated with certain mental and
physical attributes
high pitta for example is associated
with anger irritability
ulcers indigestion and like hypertension
for example okay so if you reduce your
pitta and you have
any of these problems all of those
problems will get better
and in your case what i would suggest is
that you
do you like yogurt i i like everything
okay so i know this is gonna sound
really weird and it's not gonna make a
huge difference but if you do it for a
little while it'll probably like a
couple months
i'd be curious to see whether it helps
with your short fuse
but what i would say is take plain
yogurt okay no like sugar or fruit or
anything like that
take plain yogurt use like
you know get like a eight or ten ounce
glass
uh you sound like european so let me
just think about you know
like like 300 mls so like take like 300
like a 300 ml glass
and put 100 ml of yogurt
and 200 ml of water and mix it together
into a drink it'll be kind of like a
weird like sour
cool drink and i want you to drink that
i have that
drink i'm from bulgaria and we have that
drink it's called irian
what does it have sugar or anything no
it's just yogurt and water as you said
do you drink that i haven't had it
probably in like two years okay so but
no sugar okay
so make ariane and drink it like every
like
five days a week for like two months and
it should help your anger
i know it sounds weird i mean yeah i
mean it's
it's the body so it makes sense okay
yeah
from uh from a you know scientific
standpoint so like you know the things
that we put into our gut
are um okay so i'm gonna share a paper
on stream for a second and then
um i'll share it with you two over are
you watching stream
yeah yes okay so i'll just i'll just
share it on stream okay
so like this is just a a really
interesting paper that shows that
um you know the bacteria in your gut oh
look this is in zagreb sort of in your
neighborhood neighborhood
um but so role of gut microbiota
in the interaction between immunity and
psychiatry so like this is just a paper
that talks about
like we showed the links between your
gut microbiome and your brain gut axis
regulation
behavioral variations and
neuropsychiatric disorders so what that
means
let me try to find one because i think
there's actually something about um
anger here i know this is the one that
has anger
but there's actually a paper um i can't
find it right now
that talks about uh people with autism
who have
very angry like outbreaks and like throw
things and temper tantrums and stuff
and that actually adjusting their gut
microbiome actually reduces the number
of temper tantrums that people with
autism
will throw and so i'm not quite sure if
this is how it works but thousands of
years ago ayurvedic physicians basically
said
people who have short fuses should drink
aryan like
every day and they notice that people
who drink aryan
have fewer short fuses or have a longer
fuse
and now we have some evidence that at
least there's a connection between
because if you think about aryan and
yogurt like what's in there there's
going to be lactobacillus
and bacteria in there right yeah yeah
and so you don't want to drink it like
bottled or or pasteurized or whatever
because that'll kill
off all the bacteria but something about
that may actually adjust
the way that your gut bacteria is which
in turn will affect something called
dysbiosis
which is like inflammation in your gut
which actually has mental effects
so are they any foods or drinks i should
avoid
yeah so you want to avoid spicy foods
you want to try to eat raw foods
and you want foods that are cool if
possible
so salad is very good for you okay you
just killed me because i love spicy food
yep so this is the problem with pittas
is that oftentimes the foods that you
like are the ones that are worse for you
and so what i want you to notice though
is as you start to eat cooler foods
there's going to be there's two kinds of
love okay there's gonna be something
that
feels really aligned with you and
there's something that feels very
balancing to you
like me as a vata i love doing a
thousand things in one day
but i also find that like if i do a
thousand things in one day it's sort of
like
it feels really good in the moment but
it doesn't feel balancing
i actually feel really good when i like
start my day off grounded
it's kind of different there's a
different kind of feels good one is like
a balancing feels good
and one is like an exciting feels good
it's like let's go buddy
but then it's sort of like no that's
actually not good for me and as you
start to eat colder foods you'll see
you know how you start to feel different
and it'll start to feel like kind of
cooling refreshing
sort of countering the way that you feel
so going for like fruits salads as you
said just raw foods would
help me in the long run okay and try not
to
mix fruit and vegetables in one sitting
their digestive profiles are different
and so for optimal digestion you want to
eat them separately
what would you say is like a good space
between those
like times hour and a half 90 minutes
okay great
thank you okay can i ask a follow-up
question
sure wait so are kale smoothies bad then
so when we say bad right let's remember
that there's like
hierarchies of health so like
if your option is between a hamburger
and a kale smoothie
go kale smoothie but if you really want
to optimize your digestion you
actually should not mix different kinds
of macronutrients
and there's a really simple logical
reason for this you guys ready for it
yay nay okay who knows what a lipase is
does anybody know what a lipase is i'm
asking chat
anybody know if you guys know
french you know yeah it's an enzyme
so it's an enzyme that breaks down fat
so then there's also something called an
amylase which is an enzyme that breaks
down carbohydrates
and then there's something called a
protease which is an enzyme that breaks
down protein
now when i drink let's say i just eat so
what happens is when i put food in my
mouth
the tongue in in neurons receptors in my
mouth detect
what i'm eating and what they do is they
tell my
digestive enzymes they secrete the
appropriate digestive enzymes
from the stomach and gallbladder and
intestines so when i eat like a cake for
example that's carbohydrate and sugar
i mean sorry carbohydrate and fat it
sends signals to my gut and it says hey
we need lipase and we need an amylase
now the tricky thing is that if i just
eat one macronutrient
if i eat just protein for example then
like
my my i tell my gut to secrete protease
and then i have a hundred units of
protein that i
swallow and i have a hundred units of
protease so my digestion is a hundred
percent
because in my stomach there's like
protease that's floating around with the
protein and so the digestion works out
great
the problem is that if i eat for example
different kinds of things together
if i eat partially carbohydrate
partially protein and partially fat
then i've got three different kinds of
macro nutrients floating around in my
stomach
and three different kinds of enzymes
floating around in my stomach
and so the chance that a carbohydrate
molecule hits an amylase
is only 30 so that what that means is
that there's like
improper digestion does that make sense
yeah so the the problem with smoothies
if you talk to ayurvedic or naturopathic
physicians they'll say that smoothies
are not
good for you i mean it's it's not that
they're not good for you like servings
of fruits and vegetables are still
really healthy for you
but as you like if we think about you
know what's like
is a burger healthy well like it depends
on what you're comparing it to
right so like things are not healthy in
isolation there's like a hierarchy of
health
and and if your problem is you eat very
unhealthy throughout the entire day i'd
say by all means have a
have a kale smoothie and get like two
servings of fruits and vegetables and
fiber and all that good stuff
but if you want to go to the next level
right so this is where like the yogis
who meditated and tried to gain
enlightenment
realize that they're like very very
fine-tuning to like really optimize your
dps
the higher you want to get on the dps
meters the more fine-tuned you want to
be
and so eventually like a kale smoothie
is really good
if you're like you know in the bottom 80
of health
but if you're in that top 20 and you
want to optimize your digestion
you should split up some of those
macronutrients into separate meals
does that make sense yeah that makes
sense i shouldn't have a problem because
i would like i would rather eat like two
oranges than have like
orange juice okay
okay yeah and also that psychological
stuff is totally legit too i mean by all
means think about you know whether you
get pests at people because your dad got
pissed at you
like you should do that psychological
work like how did it feel when
you know you were never good enough for
him it's
it wasn't even like that it's more like
just being very critical
sure yeah so i i think i think
look into that stuff too but it's a good
ayurvedic kind of perspective
okay oh that that thing completely
new element in my equation yeah good
so that's that's gonna be the lowest
hanging fruit no pun intended
oh please please intent
right so it's the areas that we haven't
considered that we can oftentimes get
the most benefit from
okay i'll do that then i'll buy it
tomorrow
okay make sure it's not so puns if it's
pasteurized then you need to get yogurt
that has
active cultures and make it yourself
uh okay it's gonna be a bit difficult
because i live abroad right now
for my studies so they don't have like
the the best
just yogurt yeah okay okay okay okay
well i mean do do the best that you can
i will thank you so much good luck buddy
thank you have a good
day uh yeah it's day time for you bye